SqlRender 1.16.1
================

Changes:

1. Adding support for `ALTER TABLE ADD COLUMN` for PostgreSQL, even though it is not correct OhdsiSql (because it is not valid SQL Server SQL).

2. Removing translation of `DELETE` and `INSERT` rules for DataBricks as no longer needed.

Bugfixes: 

1. Fix translation of `ALTER TABLE ADD CONTRAINT` on Postgres, which was broken by v1.16.0.


SqlRender 1.16.0
================

Changes:

1. Adding support for `ALTER TABLE ADD` for SQLite and PostgreSQL.

2. The `render()`, `translate()`, and `translateSingleStatement()` functions now preserve attributes of the SQL object.

3. Adding support for `IIF` for Synapse.

4. Translating double quotes to backticks for BigQuery.

Bugfixes:

1. Fix translation of `drvd()` for Snowflake.

2. Fix translation of 'a.b.c...d' pattern for Snowflake.


SqlRender 1.15.2
================

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing translation of `DATEADD()` for DuckDB when number to add is not an integer.


SqlRender 1.15.1
================

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation of `DATEADD()` for DuckDB when number to add is an expression instead of a verbatim number.

2. Fixed Synapse option in the SqlDeveloper Shiny app.


SqlRender 1.15.0
================

Changes:

1. Adding translation of `FROM (VALUES ...) AS drvd(...)` for PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, RedShift, SQLite, DuckDb, BigQuery, and Spark.

Bugfixes:

1. Correct translation when referring to temp table field for DBMSs that don't support temp tables (e.g. `SELECT #tmp.name FROM #tmp;`).

2. Fixing '...' in table aliases generated by `dbplyr`.


SqlRender 1.14.0
================

Changes:

1. Adding translation of `DATEPART()` for Spark.

2. Adding translation of `CEILING()` for Spark.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing translation of `CAST(AS DATE)` on Oracle and Netezza when thing to cast is not a literal string.

2. Fixing translation of `ALTER TABLE` for PostgreSQL.


SqlRender 1.13.1
================

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing translation of `DROP TABLE IF EXISTS` on Netezza.


SqlRender 1.13.0
================

Changes:

1. Added translation of `charindex` for BigQuery.

2. SQLite translation of `RAND()` now returns value between 0 and 1 for consistency with other platforms.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing DuckDB translation of `DATEADD()`.


SqlRender 1.12.1
================

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation of `WITH ... INSERT` on Snowflake.

2. Fixed translation of some functions on Snowflake casting to `NUMERIC` instead of `FLOAT`.


SqlRender 1.12.0
================

Changes:

1. Adding translation of `TRY_CAST()`.

2. The `loadRenderTranslateSql()` function now also looks in the `sql` folder of the package, so SQL files no longer have to be in the `sql/sql_server` subfolder.

3. Ensuring result of `YEAR()`, `MONTH()`, `DAY()`, and `DATEPART()` equivalents return integers on SQLite.

4. Ensuring interval is integer on BigQuery.


SqlRender 1.11.1
================

Changes:

1. Removing parentheses around subqueries for `UNION` and `UNION ALL` on SQLite, which otherwise would cause an error.

2. Preventing translating SQL twice by adding attribute to output string.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing translation of `INTERSECT` on BigQuery.


SqlRender 1.11.0
================

Changes:

1. Added translation for `SELECT *,` pattern for Oracle.

2. Switched Oracle translation of `SELECT TOP` from `WHERE ROWNUM <=` to `FETCH FIRST ROWS ONLY`.

3. Added translation of `DATEPART()` to all dialects.

4. Added translation patterns to avoid alias conflicts when using `dbplyr` on BigQuery.

5. Adding translation of SQL Server's `IIF()` shorthand for all dialects.

6. As a temporary workaround for older SQL Server instances, translating `DROP TABLE IF EXISTS` and `CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS` to old syntax.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed erroneously identifying parts of quoted text as start of SQL comments.

2. Fixed translation of `INSERT INTO` with more than one CTE for Spark.

3. Fixed translation of `SELECT TOP` on all platforms when using `DISTINCT`.


SqlRender 1.10.0
================

Changes:

1. Added translation to Snowflake.

2. Added translation to Synapse.

3. Added translation to DuckDb.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation for `NEWID()` on BigQuery.


SqlRender 1.9.2
===============

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed error about missing `checkmate` package.

2. Fixed error about `targetDialect` types not matching (character != factor) on older R versions (< 4).

3. Fixed warning about deprecated icon in Shiny app. 


SqlRender 1.9.1
===============

Changes:

1. Adding input checks to all functions for more informative error messages.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation of `CREATE TABLE` statements specifying a field can be NULL on BigQuery. 

2. Fixes translation of `CAST('20000101' AS DATE)` on Oracle.


SqlRender 1.9.0
===============

Changes:

1. Added additional logic for `INSERT` statements on Spark, including the new `sparkHandleInsert()` function.

2. Supporting `DROP TABLE IF EXISTS` translation across all dialects.

3. Adding translation rule for `CAST(... AS DATE)` for SQLite.

4. Added `snakeCaseToCamelCaseNames()` and `camelCaseToSnakeCaseNames()` functions.


SqlRender 1.8.3
===============

Changes:

1. Added rules for translating implicit string concatenation to BigQuery.

2. Added `getTempTablePrefix()` function.


SqlRender 1.8.2
===============

Changes:

1. Adding `listSupportedDialects()` function.

Bugfixes:

1. Fix `DATEFROMPARTS` and `DATETIMEFROMPARTS` translation for newer SQLite versions by first converting to `INT` before converting to `TEXT`.


SqlRender 1.8.1
===============

Changes:

1. Provide informative error message when Java is outdated.


SqlRender 1.8.0
===============

Changes:

1. Added Apache Spark dialect ("spark").

2. Adding automated check whether correct Java Jar file is loaded, throws warning if not.

3. Adding translation of `CEILING()` for SQLite.


Bugfixes:

1. Fixing setting of global `tempEmulationSchema` option.

2. Workaround for `SUBSTR()` function bug in newer versions of SQLite (by explicitly casting string to type `STRING`).


SqlRender 1.7.0
===============

Changes:

1. Deprecating `oracleTempSchema` argument in various functions in favor of `tempEmulationSchema` schema, which can also be set globally using the `sqlRenderTempEmulationSchema` option.

2. Adding translation of DATEDIFF(YEAR, ...) and DATEDIFF(MONTH, ...) to all dialects.

3. Updated `createRWrapperForSql()` to latest SqlRender standards.


Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation of CTE without FROM or UNION in BigQuery. 

2. Fixed translation of CONVERT(DATE...) in SQLite.

3. Fixed translation of DATEDIFF with literals in SQLite.


SqlRender 1.6.8
===============

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing error when SQL is not a native character vector (e.g. when it has been created using glue).


SqlRender 1.6.7
===============

Changes:

1. Throw a more informative error message when `loadRenderTranslateSql()` cannot find the SQL file in the specified package.

Bugfixes:

1. On SQLite, `DATEADD` and `CONVERT` functions now cast to `REAL` (used to represent DATE / DATETIME). 

2. On SQLite, `DATEADD` function now works when amount to add is not a verbatim number.


SqlRender 1.6.6
===============

Changes:

1. Adding rules for modulus operator for BigQuery.

2. Deleting UPDATE STATISTICS statement for BigQuery.


SqlRender 1.6.5
===============

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed `CAST(@a as DATE)` for 'YYYYMMDD' string dates on BigQuery.


SqlRender 1.6.4
===============

Changes:

1. Adding support for Apache Hive LLAP.

2. Adding functions to convert camelCase to Title Case. (camelCaseToTitleCase)


SqlRender 1.6.3
===============

Changes:

1. Added rules for SQLite for LEFT and RIGHT functions.

2. SQLite now dropping schema name when creating and dropping index (as this throws an error if left).

3.  No longer automatically casting literal to TEXT in RedShift CTE. Users are required to do explicit casts instead.

4. BigQuery `insertTable()` now also uses CTAS hack.

5. Added translation rules for `HASHBYTES`.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing GETDATE translation for SQLite.

2. When calling `render`, the replacement value can now contain a $ sign. (Previously this caused an error).

3. isNumeric can now also be applied to numeric fields in Postgres.

4. Better handling of illegal characters in Impala.


SqlRender 1.6.2
===============

Changes:

1. Added rules for Oracle for conditional indices.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixing erroneous variable name translation for BigQuery.


SqlRender 1.6.1
===============

Changes:

1. Added rules for Impala for INTEGER NOT NULL and DOUBLE PRECISION.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed isNumeric check for Netezza


SqlRender 1.6.0
===============

Changes:

1. Major overhaul of BigQuery translation.

2. Added support for SQLite.

3. `ISNUMERIC` translation implemented for Impala, Netezza, and BigQuery.

4. Performance improvement for Impala temp tables (`CREATE TABLE ... STORED AS PARQUET`).

5. Adding functions `render` and `translate` that output strings instead of lists. Deprecating `renderSql` and `translateSql`.

6. Added function `translateSingleStatement`.

Bugfixes:

1. Dropping WHERE clause when translating CREATE INDEX for PDW.

2. Fixed PDW's equivalent of CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS.


SqlRender 1.5.3
===============

Changes:

1. Added translation rules for DATETIME2.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed misspelling of DISTRIBUTE in Netezza translation rules.


SqlRender 1.5.2
===============

Changes:

1. Translation for indexes for RedShift and Impala.
2. Translation for UPDATE STATISTICS.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation of AS when used for table names in Oracle.


SqlRender 1.5.0
================

Changes:

1. Improved support for Netezza.

2. Added random distribution hints for PDW, RedShift, Netezza.

3. Improved MPP index translation for PDW and Netezza.

4. Warnings about missing parameters when rendering SQL can now be turned off.

Bugfixes:

1. Translation of camelCase to snake_case now adds underscore before numbers.


SqlRender 1.4.8
================

Changes: 

1. Better handling of 'FROM DUAL' for Oracle.

2. Improved support for Netezza and Impala.


SqlRender 1.4.6
================

Changes: 

1. Bigquery support for mismatched string and int arguments in coalesce.

2. Translate decimal to float for BigQuery.

3. Created rules to add dummy 'group by' for Oracle statements combining 'case' and 'count' to prevent Oracle from crashing.

4. Adding 'UNBOUNDED PRECEDING' to RedShift windowing functions.


SqlRender 1.4.3
================

Changes: 

1. Added a Shiny app for developing parameterized SQL, and view how this would be rendered and translated into the various supported dialects.

2. Added support for Google BigQuery.

3. Added many more rules for Amazon RedShift, including support for optimization hints.

4. Added rules for DELETE FROM translation for Impala.

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed issue when splitting SQL containing hints.


SqlRender 1.3.7
================

Changes: 

1. Added translation rules for ISNUMERIC and LOG(@expression, @base)


Bugfixes:

1. Fixed bug when trying to split SQL where reserved word 'end' is used as a field name.

2. Fixes for Impala translations.

3. Fixed translation issues for Oracle involving 'FROM DUAL'.

4. Added workaround for Oracle bug for intervals greater than 99 days.

5. Fixed bug when trying to split SQL where last line has comment but no EOL.


SqlRender 1.3.0
================

Changes: 

1. Added ability to use regular expression in translation patterns. This allowed SELECT TOP n to be translated.

2. Deprecated `sourceDialect` argument.

3. Added translation for `CONCAT` function with >2 arguments to Oracle (which only allows 2 arguments)

4. Added hints for translation optimization to massive parallel platforms like RedShift

5. Throw warnings when `translateSql()` is called with variable names that are not in the SQL

6. Throw warnings when table names are too long for Oracle


Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation for date functions so they will now work properly with datetime fields as well.
2. Now throwing error when boolean logic cannot be parsed (instead of assuming result is TRUE)


SqlRender 1.2.0
================

Changes: 

1. Added support for Impala

Bugfixes:

1. Fixed translation for DATEFROMPARTS for RedShift


SqlRender 1.1.7
================

Changes: initial submission to CRAN
